# The Eindhoven Diabetes Education Simulator (EDES) Model
The EDES model is formally a delay differential equation model describing the plasma glucose and insulin concentrations after a meal. However, a regular ODE model exists as well, which is the version that will be used in this workshop. In this file, a detailed explanation of the model is provided. In this explanation, the delay differential equation model is explained. At the end, the modifications to the model that were made to make it an ODE model are described.

## State Variables
The model contains five state variables, describing `gut_glucose`, `plasma_glucose`, `integral_glucose`, `plasma_insulin`, and `interstitial_insulin`. The gut glucose state variable is measured in mg, and describes the mass of glucose in the stomach and intestines, before being absorbed into the blood. The plasma glucose variable is measured in mM and describes the concentration of glucose in the blood. The integral glucose variable is measured in mM and describes the integral of the plasma glucose concentration over time. The plasma insulin variable is measured in mU/L and describes the concentration of insulin in the blood. The interstitial insulin variable is measured in mU/L and describes the concentration of insulin in the interstitial fluid.

## Parameters
The model contains 25 parameters. The first 10 parameters are the rate parameters of the model, labelled `k1` to `k10`. The other parameters are `tau_i` and `tau_d`, used for converting integral and derivative terms of insulin production to the correct units, `beta`, which is a conversion factor that describes the amount of insulin produced per unit glucose, `Gren`, which is the threshold of plasma glucose at which point the kidneys start to filter glucose, `EGPb`, which is the basal glucose production by the liver, `Km` which is the Michaelis-Menten constant of insulin dependent glucose utilization, `f`, which is the conversion factor of glucose from mg to mmol, `Vg`, which is the volume of distribution of glucose in the plasma, `c1` which is the rate of glucose removal by the kidneys, `t_int`, describing the amount of time over which to integrate the glucose concentration, and `sigma` which is a shape factor of the glucose appearance curve. 

Furthermore, we have three parameters that depend on the data that is used to fit the model. These are `G_b`, which is the basal glucose concentration, `I_b`, which is the basal insulin concentration, and `bw`, which is the body weight of the simulated individual. Finally, we have the parameter `Dmeal`, which is the amount of glucose in the meal in mg.

